chore(blog): 1.37.0 release (#3650)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/the-posthog-array-1-37-0.mdx

featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
excerpt: PostHog 1.37.0 introduces advanced filtering for cohorts, improved events and property pages, dancing hedgehogs and much, much more.
---

import Cohorts2 from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-cohorts-2-0.png'
import DancingHog from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-dancing-hog.gif'
import EventPage from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-event-page.png'
import ConfigurableColumns from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-configurable-columns.png'

Want to know more about what we're up to? [Subscribe to HogMail, our new newsletter](/newsletter), which we send once every two weeks!

> Running a self-hosted instance? Check out our [Upgrading PostHog guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

## PostHog 1.37.0 release notes

**Release highlights:**

- New: [Cohorts 2.0](#new-and-or-filtering)
- New: [Dancing hedgehogs](#new-multi-dashboard-insights)
- New: [Event and property detail pages](#improved-a-more-accessible-color-palette)
- Improved: [Save event columns](#improved-a-more-accessible-color-palette)
- Improved: [Faster response times](#improved-series-switching-in-persons)

> ### New: Cohorts 2.0

Author: @EDsCODE can you give this section on cohorts a read and change anything that you think should be updated.

* **Stopped doing an event:** Find your users that are at risk of churning. For example, "Give me users who haven't bought anything in the last 7 days, but had bought something in the 30 days prior".
* **Started doing an event again:** Find your users that did not churn. For example, "Give me users who bought something, then didn't for 2 weeks, but have again in the last 7 days".

#### AND/OR operators

In addition to having these new conditions, you can now combine them using complex AND/OR groupings.

For example, you can define a cohort that is "Give me users who are outside of Europe AND who have either regularly bought an item 4 of the last 5 weeks OR bought 3 items in the past week".

With the combination of these new conditions and the new AND/OR operators, you can now define extremely powerful cohorts for finding the exact users that you're looking for.

#### Nested cohorts

But that's not all. You can also use existing cohorts to define new cohorts. For example, you can define a cohort as "Give me users in Cohort X that are not in Cohort Y".

Using these nested cohorts allows you to avoid redefining the same cohort over and over again.

> ### New: Dancing hedgehogs

Author: @lottiecoxon can you give this blurb on the hedgehog animations a read and change anything that you think should be updated.

Our favorite mascot, Max, is starting to make more appearances in the product. Now, you'll see Max dancing as insights load!

<img src={DancingHog} alt="Dancing HedgeHog" style={{ width: 720 }} />

> ### New: Event and property detail pages

Author: @alexkim205  can you give this section on Event/Property pages a read and change anything that you think should be updated.

Reviewer: Looks great to me, thanks for putting this together!

Within data management, a new dedicated detail page exists for all events and properties. These pages allow you to dig into the details. For example, on the event page, you can see:
* When an event was first and last seen
* How many times it was sent in the last 30 days
* The top properties for that events
* A filterable list of the specific event for you to explore

<img src={EventPage} alt="Event Page" style={{ width: 720 }} />

> ### Improved: Save event columns

Author: @kappa90 can you give this blurb on the configurable event columns a read and change anything that you think should be updated.

> On the live events page, you can now save the custom event columns that you want to see. The columns selected can be saved at the team level, so your colleagues can benefit too.

Reviewer 2: `On the live events page, you can now select and reorder the custom event columns that you want to see. The columns selected can be saved at the team level, so your colleagues can benefit too.`

<img src={ConfigurableColumns} alt="Configurable Columns" style={{ width: 400 }} />

> ### Improved: Faster response times in the app

Reviewer 3: Committed a change to the branch so I could add an image too

> Loading insights and recordings just got a little bit faster. We realized that some data payloads were quite big. As a result, the network was slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Loading insights and recordings just got a little bit faster. We realized that some data payloads were quite big. As a result, the network was slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app. On some API requests we see over 85% smaller responses sent to clients 🚀 
```

---
date: 2022-06-27
title: 'Array 1.37.0: Cohorts 2.0 and event & property detail pages'
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
categories: ['Release notes', 'Product updates']
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-array-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
excerpt: PostHog 1.37.0 introduces advanced filtering for cohorts, improved events and property pages, dancing hedgehogs and much, much more.
---

import Cohorts2 from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-cohorts-2-0.png'
import EventPage from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-event-page.png'
import DancingHog from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-dancing-hog.gif'
import ConfigurableColumns from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-configurable-columns.png'
import APICompression from '../images/blog/array/1-37-0-compression.png'

Want to know more about what we're up to? [Subscribe to HogMail, our new newsletter](/newsletter), which we send out every two weeks!

> Running a self-hosted instance? Check out our [Upgrading PostHog guide](/docs/self-host/configure/upgrading-posthog).

## PostHog 1.37.0 release notes

**Release highlights:**

> - New: [Cohorts 2.0](#new-and-or-filtering)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- New: [Cohorts 2.0](#new-cohorts-2.0)
```

> - New: [Event and property detail pages](#improved-a-more-accessible-color-palette)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- New: [Event and property detail pages](#new-event-and-property-detail-pages)
```

> - New: [Dancing hedgehogs](#new-multi-dashboard-insights)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- New: [Dancing hedgehogs](#new-dancing-hedgehogs)
```

> - Improved: [Save event columns](#improved-a-more-accessible-color-palette)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Improved: [Save event columns](#improved-save-event-columns)
```

> - Improved: [Faster response times](#improved-series-switching-in-persons)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Improved: [Faster response times](#improved-faster-response-times)
```

### New: Cohorts 2.0

> Cohorts are an extremely powerful tool. They let you define a group of users to later base your analytics on. In this release, we completely revamped how you define cohorts, giving you flexible and powerful filtering capabilities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<img src={Cohorts2} alt="Cohorts 2.0" style={{ width: 720 }} />

Cohorts are an extremely powerful tool. They enables you to define a group of users to use for your analytics later. In this release, we completely revamped how you define cohorts, giving you flexible and powerful filtering capabilities.
```

<img src={Cohorts2} alt="Cohorts 2.0" style={{ width: 720 }} />

> #### New condition types

Reviewer 5: "New:"/"Fixed:"/"Smth:"?

> <img src={Cohorts2} alt="Cohorts 2.0" style={{ width: 720 }} />

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

* **Did not complete a sequence of events:** Find users who aren't using your product as you'd like. For example, "Give me users who added something to their cart, but didn't checkout within a day".
* **Do not have the property:** Find more specific sets of users. For example, "Give me users outside of Europe".
* **Completed an event for the first time:** Find the newest users of a feature. For example, "Give me users who bought an item for the first time in the last 7 days".
* **Completed an event regularly:** Find your power users. For example, "Give me users who bought an item in 5 out of the last 7 weeks".
* **Stopped doing an event:** Find your users that are at risk of churning. For example, "Give me users who haven't bought anything in the last 7 days, but had bought something in the 30 days prior".
* **Started doing an event again:** Find your users that did not churn. For example, "Give me users who bought something, then didn't for 2 weeks, but have again in the last 7 days".

> #### AND/OR operators

Reviewer 5: Maybe it could be mentioned here that AND/OR has been introduced to PostHog in 1.36.0

You can now combine these new conditions using complex AND/OR groupings.

For example, you can define a cohort that is "Give me users who are outside of Europe AND have either regularly bought an item 4 of the last 5 weeks OR bought 3 items in the past week".

With the combination of these new conditions and the new AND/OR operators, you can now define extremely powerful cohorts for finding the exact users that you're looking for. 

#### Nested cohorts

But that's not all! You can also use existing cohorts to define _new_ cohorts. For example, you can define a cohort as "Give me users in _Cohort X_ that are not in _Cohort Y_".

> Using these nested cohorts allows you to avoid redefining the same cohort over and over again.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using these nested cohorts enables you to avoid redefining the same cohort over and over again.
```

### New: Event and property detail pages

> Within data management, a new dedicated detail page exists for all events and properties. These pages allow you to dig into the details. For example, on the event page, you can now see:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've added a new page within Data Management, which enables you to dig into the details of all events and properties. For example, on the event page, you can now see:
```

* When an event was first and last seen
* How many times it was sent in the last 30 days

> * The top properties for that events

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The top properties for that event
```

* A filterable list of the specific event for you to explore

<img src={EventPage} alt="Event Page" style={{ width: 720 }} />

### New: Dancing hedgehogs

Waiting for an insight to load? Our favorite mascot, Max, will now keep you company!

<img src={DancingHog} alt="Dancing HedgeHog" style={{ width: 720 }} />

### Improved: Save event columns

> On the live events page, you can now select and reorder the custom event columns that you want to see. The columns selected can be saved at the team level, so your colleagues can benefit too.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can now select and reorder the custom event columns that you want to see on the live events page. You can save the selected columns selected at the team level, so your colleagues can benefit too.
```

<img src={ConfigurableColumns} alt="Configurable Columns" style={{ width: 400 }} />

### Improved: Faster response times in the app

> We've made it faster it load insights and recordings. We realized that some data payloads were quite big, which resulted in the network slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app, and now see at least 50% smaller responses sent to clients.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've made it faster to load insights and recordings. We realized that some data payloads were quite big, which resulted in the network slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app, and now see at least 50% smaller responses sent to clients.  
```

> Loading insights and recordings just got a little bit faster. We realized that some data payloads were quite big, which resulted in the network slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app, and now see at least 50% smaller responses sent to clients.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've made it faster it load insights and recordings. We realized that some data payloads were quite big, which resulted in the network slowing things down. To improve this, we added compression to a few of the endpoints in the app, and now see at least 50% smaller responses sent to clients.  
```

Reviewer 3: `We've made it faster it load insights and recordings.`

Is that definitely what you mean? :)

<img src={APICompression} alt="a screenshot showing an API client receiving 308KB instead of 1.4MB of data" style={{ width: 800 }} />

Here's to things being faster!

### Other improvements & fixes

> Version 1.37 also adds hundreds of other improvements and fixes, including...

Reviewer 5: I propose also mentioning https://github.com/PostHog/posthog/pull/10187, or more broadly:

> The retry policy of apps has been consolidated. Built-in retries with `RetryError` are now more widely available. Additionally, you will be notified by email if an app fails to load in your project due to a fatal `setupPlugin` error ([email configuration required](https://posthog.com/docs/self-host/configure/email)). See [Apps developer reference](https://posthog.com/docs/apps/build/reference#maximizing-reliability-with-retryerror) for more details.

Author: Nice! Added a section for this
